Good morning. Morning,
Morning. Morning. Now
Just grab some water, if that's okay.
You are, yeah.
About something.
Morning.
Thank you so much. Uh, we have one hour with you,
so if you would like to start with, uh, in your introduction
and some opening, uh, remarks, if you could keep them brief
and then members, we will go on to questions. Thank you.
Great. Well, thank you very much.
So, I'm Renee De Manchi, the Chief Executive
of Tourism New Zealand, Paul Brock,
the Chair of Tourism New Zealand.
Thank you very much for your time. I'll make some brief
opening remarks.
So thank you for the opportunity to speak about our work
and our performance over FY 24, the year in review.
Um, happy to obviously answer any questions as we go.
Um, it was certainly another important year, FY 24, uh,
for the tourism sector.
International tourism being a critical contributor
to the New Zealand economy.
It has now recovered to the second largest export, uh,
again, and for the year June, 2024
that we're reviewing international visitors contributed
$11.6 billion to the economy,
which was up 42% from 8.2 billion the year prior.
However, the remained there remained an opportunity
for growth as total international visitor arrivals recovered
to about 83%, uh, over that period of the review.
New Zealand, uh, is a small player in the highly competitive
international tourism market,
and we're always gonna be a niche destination, so we need
to continue to compete.
We have a really strong brand asset and a very flexible
and familiar brand platform
with a hundred percent pure New Zealand.
That continues to be very successful after 25 years.
Uh, in 2024 FY 24, the review period, we achieved 11
of our 15 performance targets.
And from a brand perspective, we continue
to see a hundred percent pure New Zealand
and the, the, the platform of if you seek,
perform strongly throughout that year.
Our marketing works for New Zealand as a holiday destination
amongst the target audience at 46% preference,
which was a seven year high.
So good intent to travel.
Uh, we supported during
that period 97 conference bids within an estimated value
of $148 million
and 1 48 conferences worth $80 million for the year.
During that year.
Uh, we also played hosted 54 international conferences, one
through our business events conference assistance program
that hosted 19,000 delegates
and delivered a value of approximately
$36 million during that year.
So, in closing the future view as we look ahead,
our ambition is certainly to ensure the industry continues
to grow strongly with tourism playing a critical role in the
government's ambition to double the value
of exports over the next decade.
Uh, tourism must deliver high value economic outcomes
for New Zealanders and must also
maintain its social license alongside the economic growth.
So it's encouraging to see during the period of this review,
94% of New Zealanders agree that tourism is good
for New Zealand, and our current
strategy is outlined in our 20 24, 20 28 statement
of intent is really focused at growing year round
to New Zealand, increasing the sector's
value, um, to the economy.
In FY 25,
the nominal visitor international spend surpassed 2019,
however, arrivals plateaued at about 86%
and we're getting on with the job
of really growing those arrivals with recent boosts, um,
to the tourism support program.
And that's very much our primary goal for 2026.
So we're really excited about the opportunity ahead.
There's plenty of potential for tourism
to support the growth ambitions, uh, and the economy
and our connectivity to the world.
So with that, I'll leave it for questions.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Um, we go to Glen Fu
Uh, KDA. Thank you. And
thanks for your time and for what you do for,
um, for New Zealand and for our economy.
Um, and Brett telling us to the world.
Uh, I'm just really keen to start pretty much
where you finished around the, um, the statement of intent.
Mm. And just can you just talk us through,
just give us a bit of a, um, understanding of
what it means for you as an organization.
Obviously political priorities change. Mm-hmm.
Um, they change, um, you've got a new set.
Um, what does that mean for you as an organization?
Um, also, what are the challenges in terms of having to,
I guess, I know words pivot
or, you know, move from what was to what now is expected.
Can you just talk to us a bit about those,
um, those intents?
Yeah. And, uh, fits for you as an organization?
Yeah, sure. I'm happy to, um, to take that.
We, so our statement of intent is our four year strategy,
uh, for 20 24, 20 28.
It is fundamentally a growth strategy.
How do we grow, uh, tourism, uh,
and international tourism, obviously specifically, um,
with a particular focus on
how do we actually grow year round.
There is a real challenge in the New Zealand tourism sector
that, uh, uh, we have a strong summer
and then the rest of the year is pretty tough going
for a lot of tourism businesses.
So, particular focus of that, um, that continues
to be our longer term strategy.
But, uh, with the recent announcements from the government
and our boost in funding and the tourism growth roadmap,
there has been a kind of an accelerator put to that program.
So how do we as part of that, get back the 2019 number
of visitors in the short term,
but in the medium to long term, very much still,
how do we make New Zealand an appealing destination?
Year round is going to be really important
for the productivity of the sector,
but also for the ongoing investment in the sector,
longer term jobs, all of those things.
So they remain kind of, we're holding both
of those things in terms of the short term lifting of, um,
of the arrivals, but at the same time, uh,
really promoting year round.
And just in terms of as an organization, what does it mean
for you as an organization financially, um, with your staff,
with your teams having to sort of move from what was to now
what the next four year expectation is like, is there,
is there a financial cost to that
or what is the challenge for your team
In terms of a new strategy setting?
Yeah. Or, uh, we are in a,
we are in the process now at the request of the Minister
of Tourism Hospitality to actually reviewing our SOII see.
Uh, as part of that. But that hasn't stopped the SPE
for this financial year, Y 26.
So again, the fundamentals of our four year strategy.
So no additional cost I don't think for,
for reviewing that strategy.
We do that in an annual basis.
Fundamentally, the SOI was a growth strategy
with a particular focus on growing the off peak.
Um, we are reviewing that at the moment at the request of,
uh, the minister of tourism and hospitality.
So, so, yeah. Yeah.
So in terms of off peak, um,
I understand that is a challenge.
Yeah. Is it something you were already doing
before, um, the government's expectations?
And I mean, I was looking at the data
and the, you know, the graphs you've got in your report
that obviously shows that is a real challenge.
Is it possible and what are the levers you need to pull
to ensure that, that this can happen?
'cause it seems like quite a, a hard nut
to crack or, or maybe rock. Yeah.
Yeah. It, it certainly is. It is a tough challenge.
And again, fundamentally we want
to grow the tourism sector all year round.
Mm-hmm. But there are different levers
and different insights that gets people to try
and come here in April and May than it maybe
does in December and January.
Mm-hmm. So that's the first thing we started with going,
what are the consumer insights of our audience?
What are people looking for at different times of the year?
Yeah. And that's been quite, um, enlightening.
What we find for, you know,
New Zealand is fundamentally appealing for its landscapes
and scenery and the variety of activities
that we can do at pretty close proximity.
Um, but what a lot of people don't realize is that a lot
of those activities you can do every day of the year.
You can do cycling tours of New Zealand most days
of the year, you know, you can do many
of those activities at VA famous.
And so there's a part there about busting those myths,
explaining that to consumers.
Actually there are different times to travel.
Um, but you're right, there's a little bit about
understanding, you know, what are the motivators, um,
to come at different times of the year.
But the prize is big because, um, if you're a hotelier, uh,
you know, you have, you have good demand in those summer
months, but it's pretty tough going, you know, now in July,
for example, for for much of the country.
So how do we get, and then,
and then probably the last point I make is then there are
specific, you know,
season based activities that are attractive.
Skiing being an obvious one. Yeah.
So how do we promote, come to New Zealand skiing?
If you take China as an example,
that's been a really emerging trend in that market.
Um, much more interest in skiing and outdoor activities.
So we've been over the last couple
of years actually promoting skiing
and outdoor winter activities much more
aggressively in China as well.
I think the other thing to add to that just is, um,
if you look at which markets are having holidays at certain
times of year, and
therefore have a propensity to come to New Zealand,
those times of year, being targeting
and being quite specific about going
after those groups is a big, big part of
what we do in that space as well.
It's a long game though, that one. Yeah.
Up. Yeah. Um, so I think you've been enrolled
10, 10 coming up 10 years.
Uh, I've been CEO since, uh, April of 2021,
but I've been with Tourism New Zealand
For 10 years. Decade. Yeah.
Just in terms of, I guess,
'cause the off peak stuff is, I mean, I, I'm, I'm,
I believe I agree.
I think we need to, yeah.
Is has there been any failings within Tourism New Zealand
over, you know, the years that we've missed something?
Like has there been a conversation over the years in your
time and previously to get that thing?
Because I, I look at, you know, we, we always sort of f Lord
of the Rings and those sort of things that are Yeah.
Amazing experiences. We always seem to be winter focused,
but then yeah, we've got those three months of some of it.
Um, yeah, our peak time,
I, I think we've, there's always been a degree
of having a focus on, on, um, on growing year round, um,
as well as a number of other things.
Mm-hmm. Um, I dunno if there's been failures, but, uh,
but it has been a really hard rock to move to your point.
Mm-hmm. So making a dent in
that visitor profile is really hard.
Now, obviously we had all the disruption of the COVID years.
Yeah. But now coming out of COVID, actually making a dent in
that visitor behavior will take ongoing efforts.
I think ongoing making firstly consumers aware of
what are the different things you
can do at different times of the year.
You know, what's, and this is not about discouraging people
from coming from the summer, not at all.
But this is about giving other reasons.
So, um, you know, other reasons to come to New Zealand
that might be in the autumn, that might be
to celebrate our food and wine.
What is it? So it's really about, you know,
feeding up those different itineraries,
but it is a very difficult challenge to move. Yeah.
And my last one on this one, yeah. Okay.
Is around, sorry, just around the statement of intent.
Um, so it is around growth, it is
around obviously trying to spread that out.
It is around doubling, you know, tourism in 10 years. Yeah.
But then sustainability is part of what you do as well. Yes.
How do you reconcile the two?
How do you do growth and sustain sustainability hand
In hand? Yeah.
There's probably two, two parts to that.
Um, one is going, we always try
and, you know, pride ourselves on going, we want to listen
to the voice of the visitors.
So what are visitors
looking for when they're in New Zealand?
What we've seen in our research that we've done on, in, in,
uh, over a number of years is an,
is an increasing interest in sustainability credentials
of the things that people are doing.
In fact, our audience is a higher propensity
to be interested in environmental issues,
sustainability than the general population, uh,
from the studies that we've done.
So one of the things we do through our subsidiary business,
Qualmark, is we really encourage operators
to clearly show their credentials of the activities
that we are doing, uh, in,
in sustainability in the broader sense of the word, in terms
of engaging with their communities, um,
but also environmental sustainability.
You know, we have a, um,
international sustainability accreditation as part
of your Qualmark membership.
So that's a bit, I guess, from the bottom up.
Um, the second is, um, you know, again, going back
to year round, if you think about traveling,
if we think about, um, all year round, there are,
there is quite a lot of assets
that are underutilized during that time of year.
So if you think about it, we have capacity that builds
for our summer, but a lot of that capacity is underutilized
through the year, rest of the year.
So the most sustainable form of growth is also how do we,
you know, build that growth into that year round.
Uh, that's a strong partnership with industry to make sure
that we understand those capacity issues and be careful
and considered in the way that we're planning for that.
Mm-hmm. We can't predict everything,
but it's obviously a key component
of working on the supply side as well. Mm-hmm.
Yep. So before we go to the next question,
and remember this is through, uh, review briefing
for 20 23, 20 24,
but obviously, yeah. Uh, Scott Willis,
Thank you. And I think
possibly mine's a sub.
So I'm thinking about how do you balance your role
to deliver economic returns with the urgent need
to reduce emissions?
Because most of, most of our tourism flies here,
and that's, I know it's not your responsibility mm-hmm.
But it is the pipeline that you influence. Mm-hmm.
So what are you doing in that space?
Yeah. Uh, I'm happy to, to, to lead on that, Paul.
Um, well, firstly, you're right.
That is obviously a, a, a, a, a hot topic, um, for,
and you're right where we are in the world,
most visitors come here and have to fly here.
Um, so there's a number of factors.
One is Australia is our most significant inbound
market in short haul market.
So if we look at current statistics, more than 40%
of our leaders are actually Australians.
Um, so that's the shortest haul market.
Um, um, the second is we really encourage people, for,
for a lot of people who come to New Zealand,
it's the trip of a lifetime.
So the length of stay that we, if you are going to fly here,
burn the carbon to get here, staying as long as possible
and undertaking as many activities as possible.
And that shows up in our average length of stay.
Even in Australians, average length
of stay is about nine days.
Going up to a European,
it's more like 24, 25 plus stays for a stay.
So that's important. Mm-hmm.
Um, and the third is, uh, goes back a little bit to the,
to the product offering, is
what we know from our research is people, visitors recognize
that they have to fly here to get here,
but how can they minimize their impact when they're here?
So again, um, operators giving, you know,
really good sustainability offerings in terms of
what they do, how they recycle,
how they reduce their own emissions,
that is gonna become increasingly important in visitors'
decisions when they're here on the ground.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's not, it's not really comparable a flight versus not,
not throwing a towel out, but, you know, I get it.
It's a good thing to do.
Um, what's the waiting on the focus towards
domestic tourism versus international tourism?
Uh, we, we are a hundred percent internationally focused.
So you, what are you, what are you, are you,
are you collaborating for our domestic tourists?
Or you just don't care about the No, well, we,
it's not in a mandate, it's not your mandate,
but, but you know,
But certainly domestic is a really important audience.
Right. So if you look at the, to total domestic tourism
sector, 60% of it is New Zealanders.
It's us getting out and about in our own country traveling.
Mm. It's by far the biggest segment of tourism.
And for many regions, it could be up to 75, 80% of visitors,
uh, uh, will be domestic audiences.
So hugely important.
Um, we don't have a direct role, uh, in that we did
during the COVID years when the borders were closed,
we were, um, really active in promoting New Zealanders
to get out and about in our own country.
Um, um, so we did play a role that, um, that ended, uh,
when the borders opened, and we went back
to being entirely internationally focused.
But we work in close collaboration with, um,
the regional tourism organizations.
Uh, we are focused on international,
but they are focused on domestic tourism.
So we're aware of each other's work in that space,
but we don't directly have a remit for domestic tourism.
Okay. And so you're talking about the going, the going
for growth purpose of the government at the moment,
then you are, you are aiming to grow tourism,
but you've also got this a hundred percent pure brand.
And, um, and that,
that seems like there may well be a, a dilemma there.
Mm. Because we've got more degraded water paint,
we've got more, more degradation in our,
in our natural systems.
We've got the potential for some unique landscapes
to be dug into gold mines.
Mm-hmm. How, how do, do you,
do you have wider discussions about the impacts
of other government policy
that may well have a serious impact
on, on the value of tourism?
Yeah, we, we certainly monitor
what potential visitors are thinking about New Zealand,
how they view New Zealand, um,
a hundred percent pure New Zealand.
And in fact, our most recent brand relaunch has really
brought that to the fore, has always been about a hundred
percent pure New Zealand experience.
So the variety of things that you can undertake in
New Zealand in the beautiful landscape
and the beautiful scene absolutely outdoors is vastly
important because that's the most important
reason why people come here.
We continue to monitor, um, visitor sentiment.
What we have seen, uh, over the year of this review period,
and as at our latest data as well, is that New Zealand
continues to perform really, really well as a destination
for its beautiful landscapes and scenery,
and a hundred percent pure helps to kind
of bring that to the fore.
Um, but absolutely, we, we, we monitor that.
If, if there are, um, if there are views of that changing
amongst the consumers.
We don't, we don't see it in our research at the moment.
Alright. We Monitor perception.
We,
sorry, you were adding something Paul? Uh, there.
No, we're just gonna say that we monitor perception
and we don't see an issue with that at the moment.
Alright. Uh, we go to Dr.
Thank you Madam chair.
Um, so what do you think, uh, were the specific strategies
that contributed to an a 42% increase in
international visitor spending?
What specific things had you done to achieve that?
Yeah. Um, well it was, this was still one of the earlier
recovery years coming out of COVID.
So the period of FI 24, um, was still, you know,
the borders only opened in fully in August of 2022.
So this was still very much a recovery year as part of that.
But we certainly during the COVID years, had a real focus on
how do we restart, um, the tourism economy, make sure
that visitors are aware that we are, we are ready
and we're open for business.
We partnered strongly with the industry. Mm-hmm.
And particularly with the airline partners
who were restarting their connectivity to New Zealand.
Um, and then we had some really good tailwinds in
FY uh, 24 as well.
The FIFA Women's World Cup, uh, was during
that par partially during that period as well.
So that's, you know, that was to talk about seasonality.
That was a fantastic boost in the arm
for July August of 2023.
Um, you know, having the American base team here,
we had more than 20,000 Americans come during that period.
Um, so they were, you know, that was a strong tailwind
that certainly helped that recovery.
Mm-hmm. And, um, just on sub on that,
were there any specific media partnerships during that time
that, um, contributed to that?
Um, $307, uh, $307 million in advertising.
Yes. We did a lot of partnerships actually.
So we work across, uh, multiple platforms.
Some of it is in paid advertising, which we would do in
actually in most media formats in, in most of the world.
Uh, we are particularly, uh, digital marketing.
So we don't do a lot of broadcast marketing,
with the exception of Australia because we're quite a big
share of Australian travel.
Whereas in, in some of the long markets, like the US
for example, we're about a quarter of a percent
of their outbound travel.
So we are, so we are more in the digital marketing space.
But to your point earlier around, um, some
of the advertising value created, we do work a lot
with user generated content.
So influences travel writers, you know, people who come here
and experience New Zealand share that experience.
Uh, and how we rate that is the advertising value.
If we had paid for that space, what would that have cost us?
Uh, and we had a really strong year in FY 24, you know,
partly 'cause we're still in that recovery mode.
So people had a really, you know,
renewed interest in New Zealand
and exploring New Zealand. Good.
Thank you. Good. Um, I have a sub, uh, to that question.
So with the, the announcement that from November, um,
people, those who hold Chinese passport will be able
to come from Australia to New Zealand without requiring
another visa if they have a valid visa
for Australia for up to three months.
So you said that the numbers comparing 2019 to last year,
I mean they were increasing plateau at 85%.
Mm-hmm. So what kind of, uh, impact do you see with
that policy coming into effect from November?
Yeah. Have you kind of assessed what it would look like?
Yeah, I, I think it will certainly help.
Um, so to give the context,
we currently plateau at about 86% total arrivals,
but within that, China is only at about 60% recovered.
Mm-hmm. Now, there's a variety of reasons for that.
Part of that is a bit the traveler mix.
So in historical numbers, there were quite a lot of
shorter stay group travel,
but they're unlikely to be the visitors that come back.
That was a, you know, those price points
that they were achieving are not, are not likely to be hit.
Um, but certainly visas, you know, travel is about
how do you get motivators, uh, um, so
what we track in our research is what are the motivations
for coming, and then what are the barriers for coming?
And things like visas, flight times cost, all
of those things are barriers and are friction points.
So removing, um, so the, the, the government's announcement
that from November, uh, a visitor will be able to go,
if they're in Australia, they'll be able to come on
to New Zealand on that visa will just
remove that friction point.
And anywhere up to about a third of Chinese visitors will be
what we call dual destination.
They go to Australia and New Zealand.
So I think that will absolutely help, um,
to remove that friction point. Mm-hmm. Um,
Sub from Glen Bennett.
Yeah. Thank you. Just in terms of, um, value for money,
um, so in terms of, did you say it's the amount
of money you spend, is that you just,
you figured that out from there?
For example, you use the Australian breakfast tv Yes.
Indian influences.
Um, you talked about the World Cup,
obviously the Women's World Cup.
Um, like how do you,
how are you actually able to properly measure that?
Yeah. In terms of, you know, breakfast TV in Australia?
Yeah. Well, what we do is we use, we work
with our PR agency
and you can, you can have a, there's a, there's a model
that says if I was to, you know, so I get exposure,
let's say it's number of minutes on air,
or it's, um, in traditional terms space in a newspaper,
or it might be social sentiment, all
of that, there's a value to that.
I could buy that as an advertiser
and then I, it would cost me a certain amount.
And so that, that's what they do.
They make those two comparisons.
You know, breakfast, TV you get from Australia,
you get five mornings, you get, you know,
half hour cross live to Australia, uh,
to back into Australian households.
You know, if I was to try
and buy those slots on TV for that period of time,
there's a value attached to that.
So it's not a perfect measure,
but it's a pretty good proxy measure in terms of,
it costs me x amount of dollars to get that TV show here.
The broadcast value of that is y you know,
what's the return on investment?
And, um, it's a pretty well used model, um, in terms
of measuring impact, value, impact of, uh,
PR activities. Mm-hmm.
Uh, new primary from Scott Lewis.
Um, what are you, what are you hearing from those in the
tourism and tourism businesses about, uh, going for growth
or growing the sector?
Because certainly what we are hearing on the ground is
that people have more, seeking more
of a steady state sustainable practice rather than any
expansion, any growth.
And they're seeking that for a quality of life. Mm-hmm.
And, and, and lifestyle.
So what are you hearing on the ground?
Are you hearing something different,
you're hearing people want to grow and,
and do, you know, own multimillion dollar houses
and you know, and do become wealthy and, you know,
or what are, or you, or are you hearing what we are hearing?
We here, that's exactly what we're hearing.
Me. You go, yeah.
Look, I certainly, we, we spend most of our time talking
to tourism operators and then obviously
monitoring sentiment as well.
Uh, tourism operators,
there is definitely an enthusiasm, enthusiasm for growth.
So whether that's airline partners, whether that's hoteliers
that have invested in those properties, um, that see,
you know, if you take Auckland hoteliers for example,
they're having a pretty tough winter this year.
They've got big infrastructure that they've built on.
So they're definitely behind the aspiration, uh, for growth.
If you take it at a simple level, we are not back
to the number of visitors we had back in 2019.
So we have capacity certainly to grow.
And then it's about certainly how do we grow?
Well, we want visitors to have a great experience.
We want 'em to go travel widely around the country.
We want 'em to come at different times of the year.
So that grows the productivity of the sector.
But overwhelmingly,
the sentiment I hear from tourism operators is a real
support and desire to grow the sector.
So, yeah. I'm, I'm surprised we are clearly talking
to two different parts sector.
I mean, clearly overwhelmingly we are
hearing the exact opposite.
So that's possibly because I'm green and we go, yeah.
We go to green focused tourism operators.
Yeah. Um, how, in that case, how widely are you?
Are you looking, you know,
how widely are you talking in the sector?
Well, we work with a, with a, I mean, there are, you know,
up to about 10,000 tourism operators
in New Zealand if you want.
I can't, we can't talk to all of those,
but we certainly engage widely with them.
Uh, we share our annual plans with them.
We attend a lot of tourism conferences around the country.
Uh, we do a lot of partnership work
with tourism operators and share that with them.
Uh, we survey tourism operators to get sentiment.
Uh, we track the mood of the nation study
that we do in collaboration with the tourism industry arts
to get public sentiment
and New Zealanders sentiment of tourism.
So I guess a variety of those, those touch points.
Alright. Uh, supplementary from, uh,
Glen Bennett. Yeah, thank you. In your, in
Your report, you do have a su um, sustainability strategy.
Um, and part of that is around emission emissions reduction,
but it looks like in there it is more at the moment you're
just doing an assessment of your emissions rather
than actually Yeah. Reducing 'em. Is that correct?
So that is in FY 23, uh, uh, sorry, FY 24
as per the government's direction in terms of us
as an agency also reducing our emissions.
Yeah. So we are actively tracking that to today.
So this was the foundation year, uh,
and then there are targets, uh, aligned
to the government's targets of its own, uh,
uh, emission reductions.
And we are tracking and on track, uh, for that
as tourism New Zealand, the agency. Alright.
Uh, supplementary from Sam Offender.
Thank you. Thank you very much, Madam Chair to meet
You.
Very refreshing to hear a member
of the green party talking about the environment,
but I know just on on that the, the line of discussion there
around, um, tourism operators and growth,
or not growth, I mean, um, we've heard from that member
around sort of a, a, a degrowth model
and you know, on the lines of sustainability, steady state.
Alright. When you, when you talk to, um, tourism operators,
you know, the hotel motel owners, people who employ lots
of people, everyone who is involved in tourism industry, um,
the, the cafes
and everyone associated with that,
do they want more international tourists in New Zealand
or do they want us to degrowth international tourism?
They want more international tourists in New Zealand.
Okay. Why is that?
That's the well, because that is
what their core business is, uh, yeah.
Is um, is delivering to those visitors.
Uh, you know, and, and,
and particularly if so tac to hospitality sector, cafes
and restaurants is a good example.
If you're an international visitor, you're likely to go out
for a meal at least once, if not twice a day.
So international visitors are a really important part
to being a cafe owner in Kaiko or in Rota or in Queenstown
or, or even in Auckland.
You know, Tara, Tara, another great example. Thank you.
And I think also they spend more Yes.
You know, when on average per visitor than
what we're spending locally as well.
So, you know, that's a driver
from our perspective for those businesses.
So international tourists are good
for New Zealand. Yeah. Good.
A supplementary from, uh, Dr. David Wilson.
Um, first of all, compliment the team over there at
sliding from seasonality to various other issues
after the primary question.
But anyway, um, I'll go back to that one.
Seasonality. Are you a supplementary or a primary?
Uh, you indicated a supplementary,
So the primary was seasonality.
So supplementary to that.
Supplementary, yeah. Yep. So that's part
of your SOI looking forward still.
Yes. And, um, having been involved in, you know,
running an RTO
and so on, I know how hard it is to turn the dial on that
and some region regions have managed queenstown,
others haven't Northland mm-hmm.
Um, very high seasonality. Yep.
So I just want to ask you a question.
While you are reconsidering your SOI,
how long do we kick this horse?
Because shoulder season is, seems to me is
a slightly better avenue for us to increase.
And I know there are capacity constraints.
I know that the industry itself has capacity constraints.
So can you just give us some insight into that?
What's your thinking moving forward?
Yeah, yeah. No, great question.
Thank, thank the member for the question.
I think, look, it is a really stubborn problem.
A as you will well know from Northland.
In fact, Northland is much more seasonal than many
other parts of the country.
Your, your peak season's probably about six weeks from kind
of Christmas day until Ang weekend.
So it's an even narrower kind of period of time.
But you're quite right. When we talk about year round
and when we talk about off peak for simplicity reasons,
we've said off peak is March to November.
But you're quite right within that.
There's a, there's a lot of, there's a lot of scope.
So the first, and, and,
and what you've seen in the first year
of the strategy has been, for example,
getting encouraging Americans to also consider New Zealand
in March and April.
Not necessarily coming in in July and August,
but kind of going look, have you considered just an
extension of the summer, the shoulder seasons
to use, to use your words?
I, I think that is gonna be crucially important.
Um, growing the tourism sector year round, I think is going
to be crucial, important
for the long-term sustainable growth of the tourism sector
and the aspiration to double the value of exports.
We must continue down that track because, and, and,
and it's simply that there are also different tools
to sell different times of the year.
Yeah. So there's capacity in the summer,
but if we want people to come here at different times
of the year, there might be slightly different activities,
different itineraries, different types of marketing
that we do to encourage people, uh, at that time of year.
So myself on that one is, um,
we've been pushing this bar for over a decade.
Mm-hmm. Have we moved the dial at all? Not Stanley books.
We've seen, we've seen green shoots,
we've seen green shoots.
Uh, but you're right, it is, you have to keep working at it.
Um, and again,
I think the summer will always be the most popular period,
but if I look over the last year, it's
outside of this report period.
But we had a real focus at growing American Arrivals, uh,
into the autumn of this year.
And we've seen some strong green shoots
of results coming outta that.
But it is, it's, there's a no quick fix.
You know, it's about what are the itineraries
that the operators offer that are seasonally driven?
Um, who are the consumers you go after?
They might be slightly
different, slightly different profile.
Um, you know, what are the price points
and the value proposition that is offered
by operators, all of those things.
And, um, I think it, but,
but I do think over the next 10 years,
it's gonna be really important to make New Zealand if we
wanna double the value of exports over the next 10 years
and double the value of tourism exports.
And not to put your final point on it,
you know, we have to go through it.
That's, sorry chair. Is it a supplementary three chair?
One more supplementary on that one. Yeah.
Um, in terms of going for growth,
that would be the weakest avenue, would it not?
I think it's an and approach.
So we are first going, look, come
to New Zealand is the first, is the first challenge, right?
We make up about 0.3% of global international travel.
I said this statistic before,
if you look at total International Outbound outta the us,
about a quarter of 1%
of those people are coming to New Zealand.
So firmly, firmly, the first task is consider New Zealand,
think about New Zealand book New Zealand.
But then after that, going, okay, now
what are the times a year that you wanna come?
So we are not doing one at the cost
of the other. Good. Alright.
Are you primary from Glen Bennett? Uh, thank you.
Uh, I just want sort of reflect, I guess on,
on Tourism New Zealand, um, from a board
and a management level in terms of, um, uh, I guess being,
uh, relevant for the times.
And I want to focus for a little bit on, um, Qualmark.
Mm-hmm. Because that's been around for quite a long time.
Um, and I think the will years, what's that?
30 plus years? 30
Plus years before, before we had TripAdvisor or No, no.
Which is different. Yes. Yes.
Um, Google, whatever Google
does and all those sorts of things.
I mean, in terms of, um, I guess as an organization,
in terms of being relevant to the Times,
do you think Hallmark still fits that
and for any international travel
that they actually understand what that is?
Mm,
I'm happy to, um, to take that.
You are right. Qualmark was created
before things like TripAdvisor existed,
I think it was in the nineties as a joint venture between us
and the AA in the time.
We are now a hundred percent owner of, uh, Qualmark.
And over that period of time, it has certainly evolved
and we'll continue to evolve.
So we continue to review it.
So at the moment where we see it is, it's actually,
its primary role is a couple of things.
One is a bit back of house.
How do we help operators lift their standards,
lift their delivery?
So we, we share insights with them through Qualmark,
but also we assess them against their peers.
How do they perform, you know, bronze, silver, gold.
So there's a kind of a, a pathway to,
to improvement the whole idea of lifting it.
Um, we can, um, second is we want to continue to go what,
what are the relevant, um, issues of the day
or things that people are looking
for that are relevant to that.
So in the last couple of years,
we have attained a global sustainability tourism
council accreditation.
That means that your sustainability credentials, the work
that you do is an, is an important part
of your Qualmark assessment that didn't exist five
or 10 years ago as a requirement.
So we continue to evolve the, um, the accreditation.
Um, and the third is, I think you're right, we have
to continue to re as at today.
The third role it plays for us is there are some parts
of the distribution channel
where having an independent assessment is
important to be able to get access.
So particularly in some of the European markets, you need
to be able to have an assessment criteria
that an operator can point to
before they'll put you in their distribution channel.
So the likes of travel leaders in the uk,
they want an independent
or they want an assessment badge that they can look to
before they'll put you in.
So there's a kind of commercial, uh, requirement of it.
But, but we certainly continue to go.
I think over the years it's become more of a back
of house tool mm-hmm.
As opposed to a front of house, if that makes sense.
'cause TripAdvisor is probably where most people go
to get their views on is this a good
place to go or not? Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I think from a board perspective, um, you know,
we're constantly looking at what are the other endorsements
that you could have globally in that space.
Mm-hmm. But there is a very strong lift internally within
the country by offering this program.
Mm-hmm. So there's sort of the quality side of that
and people lifting their game, particularly
around the way they're doing things,
how they demonstrate their sustainability credentials
to people as opposed to just the endorsement piece of it.
So there's both of those levers that we're looking at there.
I think, I think the endorsement,
the global endorsement side of it will probably shift
and change over time, but there's still a need for
that local quality lift piece.
I think, um, in order for us
to actually enable that to happen.
Whether that's a perfect fit with Tourism New Zealand,
that's a question in my mind,
but I think there's certainly
that need from a quality perspective to keep
that focus within the country.
Yeah.
In terms of, um, I guess what you're just, you're thinking
as an organization, you know, where,
where does industry sit?
What are their views on it? I looked at, I think, um,
you know, during COVID you didn't obviously charge mm-hmm.
Um, I, I,
and then your review, I think it said, you know, sort
of numbers are stagnated
or they weren't sort of growing rapidly.
Yeah. So just, I mean, I guess some reflections on
where industry stands in it.
Mm-hmm. And again, is it, yeah.
Is it, could, is it good value for money in terms of
what it actually comes
Are? Yeah. So
it's, it's a cost recovery model for Qualmark.
We don't make any profit out of it.
Ideally, we have it as a cost recovery, so it's cost neutral
to tourism New Zealand.
That hasn't been the case, certainly not the case in the
period of this review, because
during COVID it was free Yeah.
For members, uh, to be part of it.
Um, interestingly, we, we pretty much held our membership.
So round about 2000 tourism operators are members today
paying full fees around about 2000 members were members
during when it was fees free.
So we haven't seen that much fluctuation in that,
um, at the moment.
Yeah. That it runs very much as a, as a cost recovery model.
And some operators don't see value in that.
Some, some businesses go, I, I don't, it's,
it's particularly, I think it's, it,
it leans itself much more towards businesses
that are internationally focused
because Qualmark helps you get in
those distribution channels.
There's a kind of an accreditation, a requirement,
but if some businesses who who go, I'm, you know,
really focused on, on local business on I
don't need this accreditation.
So they choose not to be members, which is why we, we sort
of hold it around about 2000 members
as at today as well. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. So do you carry any evidence of,
of its success globally?
Like how do you actually measure, um, this success format?
Yeah, we, we probably use those three measures.
And one of them is, you know, getting
into the distribution channel.
Um, we do a rating, uh, uh, a pro,
like a net promoter score rating of the members,
which is actually quite positive.
Our last rating was 59,
so we're getting quite a good response
to the people that are the members.
Um, there isn't really a global benchmark, um,
but there's, but there's probably more some proxy measures.
We do get approached from time
to time from other destinations going, show us, you know,
let us know about the Qualmark model.
We are interested in, um, bringing this into our market.
It's more emerging kind of tourism environments
that go what's a tool that we can use?
Um, but at the moment we, we, on our assessment,
we still think it's fit for purpose
to support those ambitions,
but we should continue to review is it,
is it the right model for the future? Mm-hmm.
Alright. Our new primary from Dr.
Thank you very much. Um, I'm interested in some
of the tourist type activities
that happen specifically obviously in my electorate,
but, um, one of them is astro tourism.
Yeah. So, um, I'm wondering are there any sort
of specific focuses in a marketing internationally
around astro tourism?
New Zealand's quite a good destination,
and I'd love to see that grow.
Yeah. Is that something that you are also working on?
Yeah. Thanks. Yes. The dark skies. Absolutely.
We've got some beautiful dark sky centuries
Yeah. Sanctuaries around.
I wanna make another one in my electric.
Yeah, there we go. Yes.
And, and, and that and, and,
and yes, we have done a variety of activities.
I think it probably just fell just outside
of this review period, but one
of the early things we did at really promoting different
things to do at different times
of year is we did a big activity, uh, called star grazing,
where we invited, uh, chefs, food writers
and the like to come and enjoy our dark skies,
star grazing in the middle of winter and our fine dining
and our fine food, uh, uh, during that experience.
And it was really a way of going get people to reassess time
of year to come get people to realize
that actually we have a large number
of dark sky sanctuaries in New Zealand
and also get people to, to celebrate our fantastic food
and beverage offering, um, here in New Zealand.
And so we continue to do that.
If you think about, you know, how do we offer up variety
of activities that people could do dark skies,
and it's great to see, you know,
product development is really important in that space.
So more offerings of that make it easier fundamentally
to build an itinerary, get people to think about it.
So yes, long answer to your question is yes,
we will continue to, um, promote that as an activity. Yeah.
Good. A new primary from Marina Williams.
Thank you. Yeah, same interesting issues
around the stargazing
and, um, that unique offering for national visitors.
Um, I wanna ask you about the public holidays.
What has the positive effect of the public holiday being?
Um, also interested in a couple years ago
that was quite a prominent part of, um, your, uh,
story to international travelers.
Is that still something that you have used
in the last year? Yeah.
Yeah. So the public holidays specifically, um, it,
I don't think it really drives necessarily inbound
visitation to New Zealand that we have a public holiday.
Um, but certainly Martini is a great example
that's given us some great storytelling about celebrating
the new year, you know, and,
and all the meetings of, uh, that sit around mat.
Um, what we do see is in our short haul markets, um,
public holidays like Easter, Anzac
and school holidays do have a real driver effect.
So, you know, Australians share our school holidays,
so we saw this year, you know, big boost in April, Anzac,
Easter, all those things sit together.
But from an international perspective, um,
it doesn't really drive visitation
that we have a public holiday,
but it's certainly Maki has been a great tool for us and,
and an ability to do our storytelling
and international markets, um, as, as something
that is completely unique to New Zealand.
Yeah, I just a couple of, um, supple mentions on that. Mm.
I'm interested in your answer.
Um, let's go to the public holiday side of it first. Mm.
Um, what do your members tell you about
the statutory holidays being in the summer period
for New Zealanders when they're competing
with overseas visitors?
Um, not so much specifically on the public holidays, um,
but it will be a big driver for domestic tourism, obviously.
Um, but I haven't had specific kind of questions or,
or conversations from tourism operators, uh, as it pertains
to, to international visitors. Right.
So you don't think there's an effect
of domestic visitors displacing international visitors over
the STA days and you members paying more for
Ah, during that period of year?
Yeah, look, it is fair, it is true
that obviously the summer, you know, January,
February is our busiest time for inbound visitation
and most New Zealanders are on holiday
and during that period of time.
So yes, that does mean that, you know, the times
that there are some congestion, the times
that there are some of those issues, it's likely
to sit in January when we're all on holiday together.
So if you were to design a system openly,
you'd probably have those things separate from each other.
But the reality is the summer sits mm-hmm.
For New Zealanders holiday period is as,
as it does for internationals.
Yeah. And so I know that, uh, Australian stroke company,
'cause we're having a public holiday on Maki,
what I was asking you is the positive,
like whether there has been an effect
of more tourism offerings
because of the Maki public holiday now
for international visitors
because of that sort of opportunity.
Yeah. But also whether you're still marketing it,
do you still have a team Yes.
That is involved in, in Maki? Yes.
Yeah. Yes. Yeah, so we did absolutely.
And, uh, also during this period, um, and
and broader, the, the Maori storytelling is a key part
to our storytelling of a hundred percent pure New Zealand
and the marketing that we do international.
So absolutely, we continue to, you know,
Maki really allows us to tell, uh, a strong marketing story
during that time of year as well, so that, that will,
that will continue, uh, in the future as well. Alright.
A new primary from Glen
Bennett. Thank you.
I wanna continue, um, you know, talk about QMark,
but as around as a organization, as a board
around the relevance of what you do and just
'cause you've already done it doesn't necessarily mean it's,
it is, but the eyesights, um, which is something again, been
around for, I feel like it's my life lifetime,
but I think it hasn't been my lifetime, but, you know, but,
but again, the relevance of, yeah.
So looking at, I was looking at your, um, report, you know,
the bricks and mortar, um,
version when everything's done through this now.
Mm-hmm. Um, I mean, I love local eyesight.
It's, and it's, you know, local council
and new Plymouth manages it and, and it's a amazing space.
But in terms of looking at your annual review, you know,
again, bang for buck in the relevance of an eyesight
and a modern digital age.
Mm-hmm. Can you just maybe talk from a board level
and a management level how that,
um, you know, your thoughts on it?
Yeah. You go through. Yeah.
Well, I mean, VIN Inc our role in VIN Inc is kind
of the owner of the eyesight brand
and the governance owner of that.
So obviously we don't own the eyesight.
So those are generally owned predominantly by local councils
and some, um, uh, private ownership.
Um, you're right, the booking behavior has changed a lot,
but we still find an amazing amount
of footfall into eyesight.
So the, the consumer behavior of arrive in a place,
arrive in New Plymouth, what do I wanna do?
It's still a beacon for people
to come and get that information.
Uh, the challenge for the eyesight operationally will be
also how do you make sure
that you also get a booking from that?
Yeah. So, you know,
what you do see is increasingly some people might go
to the eyesight, get the information,
but then they go to their phone and make their
booking through other platforms.
Um, so making the, the kind of execution, uh, and the,
and uh, the ability to book in eyesight's really important.
And, and, and certainly that's, I think has been a, a focus
for eyesight is making sure
that you can actually walk into the store,
not just get information, but also also make a booking.
But it continues to be quite,
quite large numbers that do it.
Yeah. I think, um, from a board perspective,
we're always looking at effectiveness,
and I think one of the things that's gonna shift
and change a lot of that is, for example, AI and,
and online itinerary builders, builders
and those sort of things that we'll
probably see big shifts in that space.
Mm. Having said that, there's still a need for help
when you're local and you're in a
location to complement that.
Mm-hmm. And I say that by the numbers
that we see going in there.
So there's a need there, but I think
it will evolve over time.
Mm-hmm. And it will probably change the offering of
what you're getting in your eyesight
probably actually result in more training
for the eyesight operators as well. Mm-hmm.
So in terms of, of the financial, you know, as a,
as a organization in the last financial
or the 2324 financial year,
but the cost to the brand for you as an organization,
I'd have to get you the Exactly, but it's in,
it's in the vicinity of, of, of, of a couple
of hundred thousand dollars in that sort of vicinity
because we are the brand owner where the governance owner
of it, um, we have a, uh,
an employee who's part-time focused on mainly the governance
of the eyesight and the membership.
Mm-hmm. But I'd have
to come back to you on the exact number. Yep, that would be
Good. Thank you. Yeah, that's fine.
And I continue, again, it's
around the sort of, I guess the modernization and Yeah.
Not saying you're not, but I mean obviously the a hundred
percent pure New Zealand, you've just reaffirmed that,
you know, to continue and that's going forward.
We're looking backwards. Um,
but the other one was around, um, the,
on your online offering.
So we've taught qua mark eyesight,
but I wanted to talk about, you know, in terms
of the internet, um, your website, I mean,
you've got some numbers on here on your, in your report
around sort of 3 million views of a video on your website.
And, um, then there's a social media size. Mm-hmm.
Um, are you confident that you're doing enough
in the social media space, uh,
and in the, in the last financial year?
I'll, as you answer that,
I'll find some numbers I wanna talk to you about.
Yeah. Look, it's a fast evolving space.
So not only the, the general, um, I guess platforms
and the types of media that exists, we have to continue
to be on top of that to go, are we evolving that?
As I said, our marketing in most
of the world is predominantly exclusively
digital social channels.
Uh, you won't see us buying advertising on, on free
to air television in the us for example.
Um, and so that continues to evolve.
We work with a global, um, media partner, Mindshare, part
of the WPP group who we, you know, that would be one
of our bigger partnerships in terms of how do we do that.
Um, and then on top of that, you've got, uh,
a market like China where the platforms are all different
and rapidly evolving as well.
So that's a, that is a big focus for us to make sure
that we, um, stay on top of those trends,
those evolving trends.
Um, and, and I think you're right.
There's, you, you, you definitely can't be complacent. Yeah.
Um, because that, you know, if you think about, for example,
there's a platform called Shiong Shoe in China
that didn't exist about 10 years ago.
Yeah. Now has about 250 million monthly active users
and is the number one user generated platform
for travel and travel booking.
Mm-hmm. You know, if we don't stay
and we have a strong partnership with them,
but you've got that, that what's the new platform
that's going to exist mm-hmm.
In the next years is, will be ongoing a, a real focus
to get efficiency and effectiveness out of our work.
Yeah. All right. I,
I felt, I felt like it was, um,
it is reading it in your report, it was sort
of still very focused on your actual, the,
the entry point was your website. Um,
Um, it's not so much, but what,
but a lot of our activity refers people back to our website.
Okay. So new zealand.com is our owned platform.
If you're a tourism operator, that's
where your listing is in the, in the database.
That's where you list you, you know,
all your basic information in terms of,
and also any offerings, uh, if you're a Qualmark member,
you get a a a a higher listing in
that in on New zealand.com.
So it's more, um, every, all the activity that we do,
because we don't, we don't do the transaction,
we don't do the, we refer, we send that to New zealand.com
and then visitors go onto that site
and they go, I'm interested in AJ Hackett.
That's a referral that then goes through
to AJ Hackett to make the booking.
Mm-hmm. Does that make sense?
Alright. I'll have to go to New primary, uh, from Dr
of, uh, David Wilson.
I'll see if there's time, I'll come back to you.
New primary.
Thank you. Chair. I'm interested in the ecosystem
between yourselves
and the RTOs for your tourism organizations.
You, you said earlier that they're domestic tourism focused.
Well, both. Okay. Yeah,
Because I was gonna say yeah, they do do both.
Yes. Yes. Um,
and So RTOs primarily funded by local government.
And that ecosystem's vitally important
because each of those RTOs, as you know,
intimately, knows their patch.
Yes. And whilst they're doing domestic,
they're doing international marketing as well.
And I know that you collaborate very well with them. Mm-hmm.
But there seems to me to be quite an imbalance in terms of
who gets to do what and the support for RTOs.
Mm-hmm. Um, if we really want a good ecosystem
for attracting international visitors,
I would've thought the RTOs need
to be supported a little more.
Can you comment on that?
Yeah. So just to clarify that point.
Yes, you're quite right. RTOs are obviously also
focused on international.
The point I was more making is
that we are not focused on domestic.
Uh, uh, in the earlier point, RTOs are crucial
to the partnership because they know, as you say,
uh, the people on the ground.
Any work that we do, whether that's trade activity
or consumer activity, is generally in partnership
with the RTOs.
Uh, and we work in strong partnership.
Um, but there are different regions that have different,
ultimately, our task is to get people to come
to New Zealand, first and foremost.
Uh, and there are regions
that have a bigger international offer
and that have a bigger international appeal.
So you will see that we will work more, for example,
internationally with, uh,
a Queenstown possibly than, uh, Northland.
Uh, and that is a bit going.
Our first task is to get people to come to New Zealand.
What is the most appealing lever to get them
to choose New Zealand at different times a year,
but then very rapidly after that, what does an itinerary
of touring the country look like?
How do we make sure that we don't just want people to come
to one place and not move around?
Ultimately, New Zealand is a touring destination.
Um, so in that realm, we will always continue
to work strongly with the RTOs,
uh, right around the country.
Alright. Uh, new primary from Scott Willis.
Thank you. So in your statement of intent, you say
that the New Zealand destination brand will only be
successful if what the brand promises is met
or exceeded turning past visitors into advocates
for Destination New Zealand.
So the, you talked about the perception of 100% pure.
Mm-hmm. That's what brings people here. Mm-hmm.
How are you, how are you measuring what people experience,
what they, what they then take away?
Yeah. How well they become advocates or not. Mm.
Because we note that the,
the net promoter score seems to be declining.
Mm. So what's your, what's your, how do you,
how do you measure that and what does that tell you? Yeah,
Yeah. So net promoter
score is an important metric, uh, in terms
that first and foremost in terms of, you know,
do were people's, um, expectations of brand of a visit
to New Zealand where they met
and their promoter score is exactly that.
Would you then tell your friends and family about that?
Uh, I note that in this report,
the net promoter score was below our targets.
One of our targets we didn't hit.
Um, and currently that has recovered that this, um, and,
and I can explain a little bit why that was, um,
why that measure was down.
It has subsequently recovered.
Um, so net promoter score is back above target
for this financial year.
In the period of this annual report.
If you remember, this was still in the recovery
years post COVID.
Mm-hmm. Uh, where we had a lot of workforce,
short workforce shortages.
The ability to deliver the experience
was not as good as people. We had limited
Hours about. And those
Sort of things we had, you know, we had the problem,
we had issues with restaurants not being open
'cause they couldn't get the shifts.
And so you see that actually reflected in the net promoter
score, but pleasing to see, um, that actually if I look at,
you know, the, the, the current tracking
of net Promoter score, that is back
and recovered and performing well. Mm-hmm.
Uh, supplementary No supplement. No. Scott Willis.
Thank you. Do you have a supplementary
Well, I'm, I'm interested in, in understanding how, how,
how well do we understand what
the first experience is when they get back
to their home country?
Give me how, how, how do we understand that? Mm-hmm.
Net promot score is the first proxy
measure. Well, the first measure,
I know it's the measure, but how do you do
It? Yes. And then we track also,
you know, we also,
we look at social sentiment.
What are people saying about New Zealand, uh,
when they're back in their own country,
how are they talking about their visit to New Zealand?
But it's still, um, an area I think
that we can do more work in.
How do you actually get advocates to be active?
We know that referrals from friends
and family from a visit is a really important reason.
People become interested in it.
Um, and, and so something we monitor, but,
but it is one that we still wanna unlock more actually.
How do we turn visitors that have been here
into active advocates to kind of share
and what are the, some of the tools
that we can give them to do that?
But net Promoter Score is still the main
kind of metric that we, we look
At it from a visitor perspective.
I think there's probably more in there
that can happen over time around advocacy for New Zealand.
Mm. And for New Zealand product
and service experiences, perhaps to buy those products
and when back in the home market.
That's a tricky one to get involved in at this point,
but it is something that I think is an opportunity for
The future. Yeah.
So, yeah. Yeah. So I'm
wanting to dig a little bit deeper.
Mm-hmm. Do you, do you, for example, track
social media from visitors?
Because I'm, I don't understand that.
I mean, you can have a score, but where does it come from?
What's the data? Who's doing it?
The data collection, and what does it look like? Yeah.
Yeah. So the net promoter score comes from the, um, uh,
international visitor survey.
So the survey of visitors that have been here, um,
and social and,
and do we track, uh,
the social media of people that have been here?
No, not, not at that level.
Because that's goes into data privacy. That's right.
That's right. Um,
but so net promoter score is a
really important metric for that.
But we do, we do monitor general social sentiment,
and we also do that in response to events.
So what are people saying about New Zealand?
So, for example, the recent, um, uh,
weather events in the top of the South island, you know, we,
we monitor, does that show up in international media?
Is that talked about Social sentiment?
So, so we also do it in response to issues or,
or, um, um, uh, things that are relevant
of the day That's good.
Are new primary from, uh, Glenda.
Uh, thank you. And it's, it is coming back to, um, I guess
around the innovation and the social media side of things.
Mm-hmm. Because I was, I was, was interested in your, um,
annual, uh, report.
I mean, Facebook engagement was 41%. Um, Instagram, 81%.
I'm assuming that's because it Instagram, um, you know,
more beautiful and it's growing and it's growing and,
and the age of people on Facebook and Yeah.
But I was really, um, there were two, well, TikTok,
um, 104%.
Mm. But I'm guessing that's
because you're feeling new on there.
Yeah, that was my assumption. Yeah.
But secondly, um, YouTube, I'm, I'm a generation X
and I think, I don't wanna speak from my generation,
but I think YouTube is a big part of,
you know, many of our lives.
And it's, it's, it's quite low in terms
of engagement on there.
Yeah. Yeah. Just can you just briefly
talk to us about the TikTok?
Yeah. But you also talked as it,
you talked about before the Chinese
Shi home shoe, home
Shoe red, you know, just how you're trying
to find ways into those spaces.
Yeah. How do you feel it's been successful
and how can you actually measure it?
Yeah. Look, and, and this is the thing,
these things continue to evolve rapidly.
So what you see with TikTok, for example, is
that has been a more recent addition to the kind of the,
the, the ecosystem.
I'm also generation X by the way, but thank you.
The, um, uh, you know, to the ecosystem.
And that has rapidly risen as being a, particularly
amongst a younger skewing audience, uh, the place
where they digest that content.
And you can see that turning up in the data.
Um, YouTube is a bit newer in that space.
What, what we do see in what's a general trend,
no real surprise is getting, you know, seeing moving images,
seeing people in the environment.
So all of those platforms have moved to kind
of moving images, whereas where a number of years ago
that might have been more static stills
or photos of an environment.
Um, but the key point is, you know,
and this is going back to the work that we do with the likes
of our global media partner, Mindshare, is we've, we've got
to continue to evolve on those trends
and we continue to optimize and monitor the performance.
If we see one platform overtaking another, then we will,
you know, then should we be shifting our spend
from one platform to the next?
So it's, it's always a case of going,
how do we get enough reach
to reach our active considers the audience that are relevant
to us, but then what's the most optimal way to do that?
And that is a, a live day by day process
with our media partners to go,
are we optimizing the work that we're doing?
So it's no longer the environment of put an ad up
and wait for three months and then we'll see how it went.
You're actually much more actively optimizing.
Are people viewing it? Do you change the creative
as a consequence of that?
What are they doing after they view it?
Are, are they going to New zealand.com?
If not, do you change it? So it's a much more active way
of managing, uh, modern marketing
And, and coming in as a board chair recently, you know,
more recently, uh, you know, what you've seen in this,
in the, in this review as a governance body,
that you are agile
and looking at what is there and what is possible.
And as opposed to, I said,
just looking backwards
into the things that have always been done.
Yeah. Well, my view of that is
that there's always opportunity to improve.
And I think, you know, effectiveness is one thing,
but, you know, volume and amplifying the message,
and obviously the growth story is
a critical component of that.
I think the dynamism around the science, the innovation
that's actually happening has really started together
momentum, particularly with our global partners.
And we've seen that specifically up in China with, you know,
partnerships for example, like Ctrip, um,
which is like a TripAdvisor kind of thing.
And you know, just the amount of volume
and the amount of booking that's going
through those, those groups.
So, but I think, you know, one of the shifts I think for us
as an organization is that dynamism around data,
information, you know, the tech
and how quickly it's moving,
how quickly consumers are moving in their
purchasing patterns mm-hmm.
That's being managed across all markets in our case. Mm-hmm.
Um, I'm certainly seeing a lot of movement in that space.
Uh, but it's one we're watching really, really closely.
And I think from board perspective, that's the one we,
you know, the data, the information, the insights,
the activity that we put around that is really critical.
So I think that's probably the bit, I think this year
that we're talking about in here.
Seems like a long time ago, by the way. Yeah. Yeah.
Does, you know, it's like almost a year later, no criticism
of process, but, um, it's, well in the past
and, you know, that was a rebuild year.
Yeah. We are fundamentally well
beyond rebuilds at this point.
And that's kind of where I see it at the moment.
It's about that momentum, uh, and the tactics
and information to get that to happen.
Great. A very quick, very
Quick last question. And
you, you, you spoke to Scott Willis earlier about
the visitor expectation.
Does a line, you know, um, and
'cause social media can explode
and people can, you know, are you monitoring that in terms
of, of what visitor visit align with their expectation?
Yeah. Again, we use net promoter scores
as the most important measure, but, um,
but we, we continually, with our, either our media
or our PR partners in the markets, we, we,
we measure things like social sentiment.
What are people saying about New Zealand?
And, and I have to say overwhelmingly, and,
and it helped by the fact
that we are a really niche destination,
but overwhelmingly, it's very positive the sentiment.
If you live on the 35th floor of Tower seven in Shanghai,
you know, the dream and of, of a visit to New Zealand, and
therefore the, the subsequent enjoyment of that trip
and you get back, we see that, you know,
the social sentiment's pretty positive around that.
Right. Uh, thank you.
Re and Paul, uh, thank you to both of you.
Um, yeah, we are finished time that we had with you. Great.
Thank you very, very much. Some, uh,
questions I questions later on.
Thank you very much. Thanks Steve. Thank you.